docs/source/module_5_OAI_5G_technologies/labs/Lab_1.rst, before:

Indoor/Sanbox OpenAirInterface5g Experiments Using USRPs
===========================================================

Lab1: Setup, Ping, and Throughput measurement with iperf
----------------------------------------------------------

**Platform:** Universal Software Radio Peripheral (USRP)

**Resources needed:** Two USRP B210s, associated host computers, and
resources needed for the core network (only if required).

.. note:: For OAI experiments, you have two options for the core
	  network:

	  1. **Use the ARA-provided core network:** In this case you
	     can use the core network provided by ARA.
	  2. **Deploy your own core network:** Here, you need to
	     reserve another node specifically for the core network
	     and deploy the core network using specific container.

**Short Description:** The experiment demonstrates establishing a 5G
BS-UE link using OpenAirInterface5g and USRPs. The setup includes an
OpenAirInterface (OAI) gNB, nrUE, and the 5G Core Network.

**Detailed Description:** This experiment features a 5G network
deployment using containerized 5G software components of
OpenAirInterface5g, i.e., a containerized gNB, a containerized UE, and
containerized core network deployed on Intel x86 servers. Both gNB and
nrUE containers run on general purpose Intel x86 servers which are
connected to USRP B210 SDRs via a USB 3.0 cable. The gNB is connected
to a 5G core network via a high-speed backhaul link. The following
figure shows the 5G BS-UE link created from the experiment.

.. image:: /images/Experiment_5.png
   :align: center
| 

**Detailed Steps for the Experiment**

#. Login to `ARA portal `_ with your
   credentials.

#. Create three reservations using the *Project -> Reservations ->
   Leases* tab from the dashboard.

   1. **gNB**

      * *Site*: Sandbox  
      * *Resource Type*: AraRAN  
      * *Device Type*: Host
      * *Device ID*: 005

   2. **nrUE**

      * *Site*: Sandbox
      * *Resource Type*: AraRAN
      * *Device Type*: Host
      * *Device ID*: 001

   3. **5G_Core (Only if you are using Option 2 on the core network
      above, i.e., if you are creating your own core network.)**

      Ideally, the core network can be deployed on any node (such as
      DataCenter-Compute-000 or DataCenter-Compute-001). For this
      example, we deploy the core network on the Sandbox-Host-004.

      * *Site*: Sandbox
      * *Resource Type*: AraRAN
      * *Device Type*: Host
      * *Device ID*: 004 (or any available node)

#. Create the following two (or three) containers on the respective
   nodes using the corresponding reservation IDs. For the containers,
   the Docker images can be used as follows:

   1. **gNB**

      * *Container Image*: ``arawirelesshub/openairinterface5g:oai_gnb``
      * *CPU*: 8
      * *Memory*: 8192
      * *Network*: ARA_Shared_Net

   2. **nrUE**

      * *Container Image*: ``arawirelesshub/openairinterface5g:oai_nrue``
      * *CPU*: 8
      * *Memory*: 6000
      * *Network*: ARA_Shared_Net

   3. **5G_Core**

      * *Container Image*: ``arawirelesshub/openairinterface5g:cn``
      * *CPU*: 4
      * *Memory*: 4096
      * *Network*: ARA_Shared_Net

#. Once the containers are launched, take a note on their floating
   IPs. The containers can be accessed via the console tab of the
   respective containers in the *Project -> Containers* tab from the
   dashboard or using SSH via the jumpbox server. Visit
   :ref:`ARA_Jumpbox` for more information on accessing containers via
   jumpbox.

#. In both gNB and nrUE containers, run the following command to check the radios
   connected to the host. ::

	# uhd_find_devices
	
   The output of the above command looks like the following image. You
   may see multiple B210s since each host is connected to two SDRs.

   .. image:: /images/UHD_Find_Devices.png
      :width: 800
      :align: center

#. **[Optional: Execute this step only if you are running your own 5G
   core network. If you are using ARA-provided core network, skip this
   step.]** In the 5G_Core container, run the following commands to
   start OAI 5G Core. ::
   
        # cd oai-cn5g
        # docker compose up -d
        # iptables -P FORWARD ACCEPT

   Note the IP address of the interface ``eth0`` in the container by
   executing the command. ::

        # ifconfig eth0

   For this experiment, we assume that the IP address of the core
   network container is **10.0.4.100**. 

#. To make the **gNB** connected to your core network, you need to
   attach the gNB to the **AMF** of the core network. First note down
   the IP address of the interface ``eth0`` of the **gNB** container
   by executing the following command in the terminal. ::

        # ifconfig eth0

   For this experiment, we assume that the IP address is
   **10.0.4.44**.

#. Open the gNB configuration file with the following command. ::

        # nano ~/openairinterface5g/targets/PROJECTS/GENERIC-NR-5GC/CONF/gnb.sa.band78.fr1.106PRB.usrpb210.conf

   Make the necessary changes as shown in the figure below. Note that
   in the following image, provide the IP address you obtained in
   **Step 7.** Use **/24** subnet mask while specifying the IP
   address, i.e., **10.0.4.44/24**

   .. image:: /images/Network_Interface.png
      :align: center

   Further, specify the B210 serial number by changing the line starting with
   ``sdr_addrs`` to ``sdr_addrs = "serial=8000167";`` as shown below:

   .. image:: /images/SDR_Address.png
      :align: center

   Once the modification is complete, save (Press Ctrl+O) and exit
   (Press Ctrl+X) the nano editor.

#. Add a route to the core network from the gNB container with the
   following command at the **gNB** container. 

   **Case 1: If you are using ARA-provided 5G core network:** Use the
   following command. ::
   
	# ip route add 192.168.70.128/26 via 10.0.4.4 dev eth0

   **Case 2: If you are using your own core network:** Use the IP
   address obtained from **Step 6** (in this example it is 10.0.4.100)
   in the command as follows. ::

      	# ip route add 192.168.70.128/26 via 10.0.4.100 dev eth0

#. To test the reachability of the 5G Core from the gNB container, run
   a ping in the gNB container toward the ``AMF`` of the core
   network. ::

	# ping 192.168.70.132

#. In the **gNB** container, run the OAI gNB using the following
   commands. ::

   	# cd ~/openairinterface5g
   	# source oaienv
   	# cd cmake_targets/ran_build/build
   	# ./nr-softmodem -O ../../../targets/PROJECTS/GENERIC-NR-5GC/CONF/gnb.sa.band78.fr1.106PRB.usrpb210.conf --gNBs.[0].min_rxtxtime 6 --sa -E --continuous-tx 

	
#. An important parameter that users want to change is the ``center
   frequency``. Even though it is advisable to keep it default, the
   center frequency can be modified using the following two
   parameters. 

	1. ``absoluteFrequencySSB``
	2. ``dl_absoluteFrequencyPointA``

   The parameters above take NR ARFCN values for the specific center
   frequency. You can use the `online 5G NR ARFCN Calculator
   `_ to get the
   ``absoluteFrequencySSB`` in case if you are not familiar with the
   low-level calculation. To obtain the corresponding
   ``dl_absoluteFrequencyPointA``, subtract ``1272`` from the
   ``absoluteFrequencySSB`` value.

#. In the **nrUE** container, run the OAI nrUE using the following
   commands. ::

   	# cd ~/openairinterface5g
   	# source oaienv
   	# cd cmake_targets/ran_build/build
   	# ./nr-uesoftmodem -O ../../../targets/PROJECTS/GENERIC-NR-5GC/CONF/ue.conf -r 106 --numerology 1 --band 78 -C 3604800000 --ue-fo-compensation --sa -E --ue-txgain 0 --usrp-args "serial=8000170" --nokrnmod 1

   **Console Traces**

   On establishing a successful connection, the commands provide the
   following output.

	**gNB Console Trace**
	
	.. image:: /images/gNB_Console.png
           :align: center
	| 

	**nrUE Console Trace**
	
	.. image:: /images/UE_Console.png
           :align: center

   .. note:: When the connection is established, we can observe a new
	     interface ``oaitun_ue1`` in **nrUE** with an IP address
	     assigned by the SMF of the core network. In order to find
	     the IP address, open (or SSH into) another terminal for
	     **nrUE container** and run the command ``ifconfig``. For
	     this experiment, we assume that the IP obtained is
	     ``10.0.0.2``.

   In this experiment, the interface name assigned to the nrUE by the
   SMF is given as ``oaitun_ue1``, which is used in the commands
   provided in the steps below.

#. **Ping test to the Core Network**: On the nrUE container, run the
   following command to ping the core network to ensure stable
   connection. ::

     # ping -I oaitun_ue1 192.168.70.135

   An example output of the *ping* command is shown below.

     .. image:: /images/sandbox_ping.png
	:align: center

   For recording the *ping* output to a text file (say
   *ping_output.txt*), we can use the following command. ::

     # ping -I oaitun_ue1 192.168.70.135 | tee ping_output.txt

Throughput Test
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

15. **Downlink Throughput:** For measuring the throughput, we use the
    tool *iperf*. For the downlink throughput, follow the steps below.

    1. Run the *iperf* server in the **nrUE** container using the
       following command. Remember to use the ip address of the
       ``oaitun_ue1`` interface. In what follows, we assume the IP to
       be ``10.0.0.2``. ::

	 # iperf -s -i 1 -u -B 10.0.0.2

    2. Run the *iperf* client in the **5G core** container. Remember
       to use the IP address of the ``oaitun_ue1`` interface in
       **nrUE** after the ``-c`` flag. In what follows, we assume the
       UE IP to be ``10.0.0.2``. ::

	 # docker exec -it oai-ext-dn iperf -c 10.0.0.2 -u -b 10M --bind 192.168.70.135

       An example *iperf* trace at **nrUE**

       .. image:: /images/Downlink_Throughput_at_nrUE.png
	  :align: center
	  :width: 600

16. **Uplink Throughput**: For the uplink, we need to run the *iperf*
    server at the 5G core and *iperf* client at the nrUE.

    1. For the uplink throughput, first, run the *iperf* server at the
       5G core network.::

	 # docker exec -it oai-ext-dn iperf -s -i 1 -u -B 192.168.70.135

    2. Run *iperf* client in the nrUE container. Remember to use the
       IP address of the ``oaitun_ue1`` interface at **nrUE** after
       the ``--bind`` flag. In what follows, we assume the UE IP to be
       ``10.0.0.2``. ::

	 # iperf -c 192.168.70.135 -u -b 2M --bind 10.0.0.2

       An example *iperf* trace at **5G Core**

       .. image:: /images/Uplink_Throughput_at_Core.png
	  :align: center
	  :width: 600

Viewing OAI GUI Scope Using X Forwarding
---------------------------------------------

To visualize the GUI elements of the OpenAirInterface (OAI) software on headless machines, we use X11 Forwarding. This method allows graphical programs on the server to use the display capabilities of the local machine. Follow these steps to set up and use X11 Forwarding.

Setup X11 Forwarding
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You may refer to :ref:`detailed section <x-forwarding>` for more information.

1. **Enable X11 Forwarding on the Server:**
   Ensure that the SSH server on your container is configured to allow X11 forwarding. This involves editing the SSH configuration file:

   .. code-block:: bash

       nano /etc/ssh/sshd_config

   Find the ``X11Forwarding`` line and make sure it is set to ``yes``. If it is commented out, uncomment it and change the setting to ``yes``.

   .. code-block:: bash

       X11Forwarding yes

   After making changes, restart the SSH service:

   .. code-block:: bash

       service ssh restart

2. **Prepare the Local Machine:**
   On your local machine, install an X Server software if it's not already installed. For Windows, you can use Xming or VcXsrv. For macOS, XQuartz is recommended.

   - **Windows Users:** Download and install Xming or VcXsrv from their respective websites.
   - **macOS Users:** Download and install XQuartz from its official website, then log out and back in to initialize the X Server.

3. **Configure SSH Client for X11 Forwarding:**
   Configure your SSH client to enable X11 Forwarding. This can typically be done with the ``-X`` or ``-Y`` option (the latter disables some X11 security checks and may be needed for some applications).

   .. code-block:: bash

       ssh -Y -J [jbox-username]@jbox.arawireless.org [container-username]@[floating-ip]

4. **Verify X11 Forwarding:**
   To verify that X11 Forwarding is working, try running a simple X11 program like ``xeyes`` or ``xclock`` after connecting:

   .. code-block:: bash

       xclock

   If the clock or eyes application appears on your local screen, X11 Forwarding is correctly set up.

XForms and QtScope Setup
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1. **Install Dependencies for XForms:**
   Before building the XForms scope, you need to install the necessary packages:
   
   .. code-block:: bash

       sudo apt-get update
       sudo apt-get install libforms-bin libforms-dev

2. **Build XForms Scope:**
   Compile the XForms scope by navigating to the build directory and running the build script:

   .. code-block:: bash

       cd ~/openairinterface5g/cmake_targets/
       ./build_oai --build-lib nrscope --ninja
       cd ran_build/build/
       cmake -DENABLE_NRSCOPE=ON ../../../ && ninja nrscope

3. **Install Qt5 for QtScope:**
   QtScope requires Qt5 libraries. Install them using:

   .. code-block:: bash

       sudo apt-get update
       sudo apt-get install libqt5charts5-dev

4. **Build QtScope:**
   Similar to XForms, compile the QtScope:

   .. code-block:: bash

       cd ~/openairinterface5g/cmake_targets/
       ./build_oai --build-lib nrqtscope --ninja
       cd ran_build/build/
       cmake -DENABLE_NRQTSCOPE=ON ../../../ && ninja nrqtscope

Start the OAI gNB with GUI Scope
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: bash

    cd ~/openairinterface5g/cmake_targets/ran_build/build/
    ./nr-softmodem -O ../../../targets/PROJECTS/GENERIC-NR-5GC/CONF/gnb.sa.band78.fr1.106PRB.usrpb210.conf --gNBs.[0].min_rxtxtime 6 --sa -E --continuous-tx -d --XFORMS

The ``-d`` switch enables the GUI. The ``--XFORMS`` option specifies using the XForms graphical interface. Ensure that you adjust these parameters according to which GUI you wish to use, whether XForms or QtScope.
      .. image:: /images/oai_gui_scope_example.png
     
     *Example of OpenAirInterface GUI Scope in action.*



.. note:: The GUI may require significant bandwidth and local system resources, especially when running complex visualizations or when network conditions are suboptimal.



.. warning:: Ensure that any firewalls or network policies in place allow X11 traffic, as it can be blocked on some networks due to security policies.

Commit message:

ssh key issue with -v -J resolved and added as a note

docs/source/module_5_OAI_5G_technologies/labs/Lab_1.rst, after:

Indoor/Sanbox OpenAirInterface5g Experiments Using USRPs
===========================================================

Lab1: Setup, Ping, and Throughput measurement with iperf
----------------------------------------------------------

**Platform:** Universal Software Radio Peripheral (USRP)

**Resources needed:** Two USRP B210s, associated host computers, and
resources needed for the core network (only if required).

.. note:: For OAI experiments, you have two options for the core
	  network:

	  1. **Use the ARA-provided core network:** In this case you
	     can use the core network provided by ARA.
	  2. **Deploy your own core network:** Here, you need to
	     reserve another node specifically for the core network
	     and deploy the core network using specific container.

**Short Description:** The experiment demonstrates establishing a 5G
BS-UE link using OpenAirInterface5g and USRPs. The setup includes an
OpenAirInterface (OAI) gNB, nrUE, and the 5G Core Network.

**Detailed Description:** This experiment features a 5G network
deployment using containerized 5G software components of
OpenAirInterface5g, i.e., a containerized gNB, a containerized UE, and
containerized core network deployed on Intel x86 servers. Both gNB and
nrUE containers run on general purpose Intel x86 servers which are
connected to USRP B210 SDRs via a USB 3.0 cable. The gNB is connected
to a 5G core network via a high-speed backhaul link. The following
figure shows the 5G BS-UE link created from the experiment.

.. image:: /images/Experiment_5.png
   :align: center
| 

**Detailed Steps for the Experiment**

#. Login to `ARA portal `_ with your
   credentials.

#. Create three reservations using the *Project -> Reservations ->
   Leases* tab from the dashboard.

   1. **gNB**

      * *Site*: Sandbox  
      * *Resource Type*: AraRAN  
      * *Device Type*: Host
      * *Device ID*: 005

   2. **nrUE**

      * *Site*: Sandbox
      * *Resource Type*: AraRAN
      * *Device Type*: Host
      * *Device ID*: 001

   3. **5G_Core (Only if you are using Option 2 on the core network
      above, i.e., if you are creating your own core network.)**

      Ideally, the core network can be deployed on any node (such as
      DataCenter-Compute-000 or DataCenter-Compute-001). For this
      example, we deploy the core network on the Sandbox-Host-004.

      * *Site*: Sandbox
      * *Resource Type*: AraRAN
      * *Device Type*: Host
      * *Device ID*: 004 (or any available node)

#. Create the following two (or three) containers on the respective
   nodes using the corresponding reservation IDs. For the containers,
   the Docker images can be used as follows:

   1. **gNB**

      * *Container Image*: ``arawirelesshub/openairinterface5g:oai_gnb``
      * *CPU*: 8
      * *Memory*: 8192
      * *Network*: ARA_Shared_Net

   2. **nrUE**

      * *Container Image*: ``arawirelesshub/openairinterface5g:oai_nrue``
      * *CPU*: 8
      * *Memory*: 6000
      * *Network*: ARA_Shared_Net

   3. **5G_Core**

      * *Container Image*: ``arawirelesshub/openairinterface5g:cn``
      * *CPU*: 4
      * *Memory*: 4096
      * *Network*: ARA_Shared_Net

#. Once the containers are launched, take a note on their floating
   IPs. The containers can be accessed via the console tab of the
   respective containers in the *Project -> Containers* tab from the
   dashboard or using SSH via the jumpbox server. Visit
   :ref:`ARA_Jumpbox` for more information on accessing containers via
   jumpbox.

#. In both gNB and nrUE containers, run the following command to check the radios
   connected to the host. ::

	# uhd_find_devices
	
   The output of the above command looks like the following image. You
   may see multiple B210s since each host is connected to two SDRs.

   .. image:: /images/UHD_Find_Devices.png
      :width: 800
      :align: center

#. **[Optional: Execute this step only if you are running your own 5G
   core network. If you are using ARA-provided core network, skip this
   step.]** In the 5G_Core container, run the following commands to
   start OAI 5G Core. ::
   
        # cd oai-cn5g
        # docker compose up -d
        # iptables -P FORWARD ACCEPT

   Note the IP address of the interface ``eth0`` in the container by
   executing the command. ::

        # ifconfig eth0

   For this experiment, we assume that the IP address of the core
   network container is **10.0.4.100**. 

#. To make the **gNB** connected to your core network, you need to
   attach the gNB to the **AMF** of the core network. First note down
   the IP address of the interface ``eth0`` of the **gNB** container
   by executing the following command in the terminal. ::

        # ifconfig eth0

   For this experiment, we assume that the IP address is
   **10.0.4.44**.

#. Open the gNB configuration file with the following command. ::

        # nano ~/openairinterface5g/targets/PROJECTS/GENERIC-NR-5GC/CONF/gnb.sa.band78.fr1.106PRB.usrpb210.conf

   Make the necessary changes as shown in the figure below. Note that
   in the following image, provide the IP address you obtained in
   **Step 7.** Use **/24** subnet mask while specifying the IP
   address, i.e., **10.0.4.44/24**

   .. image:: /images/Network_Interface.png
      :align: center

   Further, specify the B210 serial number by changing the line starting with
   ``sdr_addrs`` to ``sdr_addrs = "serial=8000167";`` as shown below:

   .. image:: /images/SDR_Address.png
      :align: center

   Once the modification is complete, save (Press Ctrl+O) and exit
   (Press Ctrl+X) the nano editor.

#. Add a route to the core network from the gNB container with the
   following command at the **gNB** container. 

   **Case 1: If you are using ARA-provided 5G core network:** Use the
   following command. ::
   
	# ip route add 192.168.70.128/26 via 10.0.4.4 dev eth0

   **Case 2: If you are using your own core network:** Use the IP
   address obtained from **Step 6** (in this example it is 10.0.4.100)
   in the command as follows. ::

      	# ip route add 192.168.70.128/26 via 10.0.4.100 dev eth0

#. To test the reachability of the 5G Core from the gNB container, run
   a ping in the gNB container toward the ``AMF`` of the core
   network. ::

	# ping 192.168.70.132

#. In the **gNB** container, run the OAI gNB using the following
   commands. ::

   	# cd ~/openairinterface5g
   	# source oaienv
   	# cd cmake_targets/ran_build/build
   	# ./nr-softmodem -O ../../../targets/PROJECTS/GENERIC-NR-5GC/CONF/gnb.sa.band78.fr1.106PRB.usrpb210.conf --gNBs.[0].min_rxtxtime 6 --sa -E --continuous-tx 

	
#. An important parameter that users want to change is the ``center
   frequency``. Even though it is advisable to keep it default, the
   center frequency can be modified using the following two
   parameters. 

	1. ``absoluteFrequencySSB``
	2. ``dl_absoluteFrequencyPointA``

   The parameters above take NR ARFCN values for the specific center
   frequency. You can use the `online 5G NR ARFCN Calculator
   `_ to get the
   ``absoluteFrequencySSB`` in case if you are not familiar with the
   low-level calculation. To obtain the corresponding
   ``dl_absoluteFrequencyPointA``, subtract ``1272`` from the
   ``absoluteFrequencySSB`` value.

#. In the **nrUE** container, run the OAI nrUE using the following
   commands. ::

   	# cd ~/openairinterface5g
   	# source oaienv
   	# cd cmake_targets/ran_build/build
   	# ./nr-uesoftmodem -O ../../../targets/PROJECTS/GENERIC-NR-5GC/CONF/ue.conf -r 106 --numerology 1 --band 78 -C 3604800000 --ue-fo-compensation --sa -E --ue-txgain 0 --usrp-args "serial=8000170" --nokrnmod 1

   **Console Traces**

   On establishing a successful connection, the commands provide the
   following output.

	**gNB Console Trace**
	
	.. image:: /images/gNB_Console.png
           :align: center
	| 

	**nrUE Console Trace**
	
	.. image:: /images/UE_Console.png
           :align: center

   .. note:: When the connection is established, we can observe a new
	     interface ``oaitun_ue1`` in **nrUE** with an IP address
	     assigned by the SMF of the core network. In order to find
	     the IP address, open (or SSH into) another terminal for
	     **nrUE container** and run the command ``ifconfig``. For
	     this experiment, we assume that the IP obtained is
	     ``10.0.0.2``.

   In this experiment, the interface name assigned to the nrUE by the
   SMF is given as ``oaitun_ue1``, which is used in the commands
   provided in the steps below.

#. **Ping test to the Core Network**: On the nrUE container, run the
   following command to ping the core network to ensure stable
   connection. ::

     # ping -I oaitun_ue1 192.168.70.135

   An example output of the *ping* command is shown below.

     .. image:: /images/sandbox_ping.png
	:align: center

   For recording the *ping* output to a text file (say
   *ping_output.txt*), we can use the following command. ::

     # ping -I oaitun_ue1 192.168.70.135 | tee ping_output.txt

Throughput Test
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

15. **Downlink Throughput:** For measuring the throughput, we use the
    tool *iperf*. For the downlink throughput, follow the steps below.

    1. Run the *iperf* server in the **nrUE** container using the
       following command. Remember to use the ip address of the
       ``oaitun_ue1`` interface. In what follows, we assume the IP to
       be ``10.0.0.2``. ::

	 # iperf -s -i 1 -u -B 10.0.0.2

    2. Run the *iperf* client in the **5G core** container. Remember
       to use the IP address of the ``oaitun_ue1`` interface in
       **nrUE** after the ``-c`` flag. In what follows, we assume the
       UE IP to be ``10.0.0.2``. ::

	 # docker exec -it oai-ext-dn iperf -c 10.0.0.2 -u -b 10M --bind 192.168.70.135

       An example *iperf* trace at **nrUE**

       .. image:: /images/Downlink_Throughput_at_nrUE.png
	  :align: center
	  :width: 600

16. **Uplink Throughput**: For the uplink, we need to run the *iperf*
    server at the 5G core and *iperf* client at the nrUE.

    1. For the uplink throughput, first, run the *iperf* server at the
       5G core network.::

	 # docker exec -it oai-ext-dn iperf -s -i 1 -u -B 192.168.70.135

    2. Run *iperf* client in the nrUE container. Remember to use the
       IP address of the ``oaitun_ue1`` interface at **nrUE** after
       the ``--bind`` flag. In what follows, we assume the UE IP to be
       ``10.0.0.2``. ::

	 # iperf -c 192.168.70.135 -u -b 2M --bind 10.0.0.2

       An example *iperf* trace at **5G Core**

       .. image:: /images/Uplink_Throughput_at_Core.png
	  :align: center
	  :width: 600

Viewing OAI GUI Scope Using X Forwarding
---------------------------------------------

To visualize the GUI elements of the OpenAirInterface (OAI) software on headless machines, we use X11 Forwarding. This method allows graphical programs on the server to use the display capabilities of the local machine. Follow these steps to set up and use X11 Forwarding.

Setup X11 Forwarding
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You may refer to :ref:`detailed section <x-forwarding>` for more information.

1. **Enable X11 Forwarding on the Server:**
   Ensure that the SSH server on your container is configured to allow X11 forwarding. This involves editing the SSH configuration file:

   .. code-block:: bash

       nano /etc/ssh/sshd_config

   Find the ``X11Forwarding`` line and make sure it is set to ``yes``. If it is commented out, uncomment it and change the setting to ``yes``.

   .. code-block:: bash

       X11Forwarding yes

   After making changes, restart the SSH service:

   .. code-block:: bash

       service ssh restart

2. **Prepare the Local Machine:**
   On your local machine, install an X Server software if it's not already installed. For Windows, you can use Xming or VcXsrv. For macOS, XQuartz is recommended.

   - **Windows Users:** Download and install Xming or VcXsrv from their respective websites.
   - **macOS Users:** Download and install XQuartz from its official website, then log out and back in to initialize the X Server.

3. **Configure SSH Client for X11 Forwarding:**
   Configure your SSH client to enable X11 Forwarding. This can typically be done with the ``-X`` or ``-Y`` option (the latter disables some X11 security checks and may be needed for some applications).

   .. code-block:: bash

       ssh -v -J [jbox-username]@jbox.arawireless.org [container-username]@[floating-ip]

   .. note::
      If you are using PowerShell in Windows, ensure that the SSH_AUTH_SOCK environment variable is set correctly after starting the SSH agent. In PowerShell, you can set this variable by running:

      .. code-block:: powershell

          $env:SSH_AUTH_SOCK = "path_to_your_ssh_agent_socket"
          ssh-add /path-to-key/

      Replace ``path_to_your_ssh_agent_socket`` with the actual path provided when you start the ssh-agent. This ensures that `ssh-add` and other SSH operations can correctly communicate with the ssh-agent. If you have used Git Bash to start the ssh-agent and set the variable there, you may need to set it again in PowerShell if running in a different session or window.


3. **Verify X11 Forwarding:**
   To verify that X11 Forwarding is working, try running a simple X11 program like ``xeyes`` or ``xclock`` after connecting:

   .. code-block:: bash

       xclock

   If the clock or eyes application appears on your local screen, X11 Forwarding is correctly set up.

XForms and QtScope Setup
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1. **Install Dependencies for XForms:**
   Before building the XForms scope, you need to install the necessary packages:
   
   .. code-block:: bash

       sudo apt-get update
       sudo apt-get install libforms-bin libforms-dev

2. **Build XForms Scope:**
   Compile the XForms scope by navigating to the build directory and running the build script:

   .. code-block:: bash

       cd ~/openairinterface5g/cmake_targets/
       ./build_oai --build-lib nrscope --ninja
       cd ran_build/build/
       cmake -DENABLE_NRSCOPE=ON ../../../ && ninja nrscope

3. **Install Qt5 for QtScope:**
   QtScope requires Qt5 libraries. Install them using:

   .. code-block:: bash

       sudo apt-get update
       sudo apt-get install libqt5charts5-dev

4. **Build QtScope:**
   Similar to XForms, compile the QtScope:

   .. code-block:: bash

       cd ~/openairinterface5g/cmake_targets/
       ./build_oai --build-lib nrqtscope --ninja
       cd ran_build/build/
       cmake -DENABLE_NRQTSCOPE=ON ../../../ && ninja nrqtscope

Start the OAI gNB with GUI Scope
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: bash

    cd ~/openairinterface5g/cmake_targets/ran_build/build/
    ./nr-softmodem -O ../../../targets/PROJECTS/GENERIC-NR-5GC/CONF/gnb.sa.band78.fr1.106PRB.usrpb210.conf --gNBs.[0].min_rxtxtime 6 --sa -E --continuous-tx -d --XFORMS

The ``-d`` switch enables the GUI. The ``--XFORMS`` option specifies using the XForms graphical interface. Ensure that you adjust these parameters according to which GUI you wish to use, whether XForms or QtScope.
      .. image:: /images/oai_gui_scope_example.png
     
     *Example of OpenAirInterface GUI Scope in action.*



.. note:: The GUI may require significant bandwidth and local system resources, especially when running complex visualizations or when network conditions are suboptimal.



.. warning:: Ensure that any firewalls or network policies in place allow X11 traffic, as it can be blocked on some networks due to security policies.
